Let's see CloudFormation in action.
From the AWS management console page,
type CloudFormation, this brings you to the CloudFormation dashboard.
I want to show you the designer first.
The AWS CloudFormation designer is the graphic tool for creating,
viewing, and modifying AWS CloudFormation templates.
So with this designer,
you can diagram your template resources using a drag and drop interface,
and then actually edit the details using JSON or a YAML.
So for example, let's say I wanted to stand up an auto scaling group.
I would simply drag and drop it over here.
Within that auto-scaling group,
we will need an EC2 instance,
drag and drop it over here.
Now, there is a dependency for the auto-scaling group.
There have to be instances running.
So let's show that dependency by using this arrow, here we go.
So this is a quick look.
Let me show you an existing CloudFormation template that I
created using this visual designer to actually create an S3 instance.
So I'm going to open that file.
It's something I saved locally, open.
So notice here I've dragged and dropped an S3 bucket.
So let's click on it and click on components.
Notice the JSON here on line three,
it shows the name of the bucket.
Here on line six it shows the access control for the bucket,
so the bucket is public.
Now, let's close this designer by clicking on ''Close''.
Let's take a look at the stack that was deployed to create an S3 bucket.
So once I close the designer,
it brings me back to the stack details page.
So this is the very first stack that I'm going to click on,
and click on "Events".
This shows here on this second row that the S3 bucket was created,
because I have a status of create complete.
Let's navigate to S3 to see if a bucket was actually created and click on "Services",
and we can go to S3.
Let's sort this by the most recent first,
and notice here this is the bucket that was created by the CloudFormation stack.
Notice this portion here that is the name of the bucket that we identified.
You can stand up all types of resources through CloudFormation in your hands-on lab,
you will use CloudFormation to create an S3 bucket.